adding a blog about statefulset (#9776)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2021/statefulsets-made-easier/index.md

---

Kubernetes [`StatefulSets`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) are commonly used to manage stateful applications. In addition to managing the deployment and scaling of a set of `Pods`, `StatefulSets` provide guarantees about the ordering and uniqueness of those `Pods`. Common applications used with `StatefulSets` include ZooKeeper, Cassandra, Elasticsearch, Redis and NiFi.

The Istio community has been making gradual progress towards zero-configuration support for `StatefulSets`; from automatic mTLS, to eliminating the need to create `DestinationRule` or `ServiceEntry` resources, to the most recent [pod networking changes in Istio 1.10](/blog/2021/upcoming-networking-changes/).

What is unique about using a `StatefulSet` with a service mesh? The `StatefulSet` pods are created from the same spec, but are not interchangeable: each has a persistent identifier that it maintains across any rescheduling. The kind of apps that run in a `StatefulSet` are often those that need to communicate among their pods, and, as they come from a world of hard-coded IP addresses, may listen on the pod IP only, instead of `0.0.0.0`.

> ZooKeeper, for example, is configured by default not to listen on all IPs for quorum communication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZooKeeper, for example, is configured by default to not listen on all IPs for quorum communication:
```

{{< text bash yaml >}}
$ istioctl proxy-config cluster my-release-zookeeper-1 --port 3888 --direction inbound -o json
[
    {
        "name": "inbound|3888||",
        "type": "STATIC",
        "connectTimeout": "10s",
        "loadAssignment": {
            "clusterName": "inbound|3888||",
            "endpoints": [
                {
                    "lbEndpoints": [
                        {
                            "endpoint": {
                                "address": {
                                    "socketAddress": {
                                        "address": "127.0.0.1",
                                        "portValue": 3888
                                    }
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        },
...
{{< /text >}}

What is interesting here is that the inbound on port 3888 has `127.0.0.1` as its endpoint. This is because the Envoy proxy, in versions of Istio prior to 1.10, redirects the inbound traffic to the `loopback` interface, as described in [our blog post about the change](/blog/2021/upcoming-networking-changes/).

> ## `StatefulSets` in Action with Istio 1.10
> 
> Install Istio 1.10 and configure the `default` namespace to enable Istio 1.10’s sidecar injection. Let’s rolling restart the ZooKeeper `StatefulSet` to update the pods to use Istio 1.10’s sidecar proxy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `StatefulSets` in action with Istio 1.10

Now, we have upgraded our cluster to Istio 1.10 and configured the `default` namespace to enable 1.10 sidecar injection. Let’s rolling restart the ZooKeeper `StatefulSet` to update the pods to use the new version of the sidecar proxy:
```
